When you need to focus
on building, do you want
to get bogged down by
your database? Mongo DB is
an intuitive, flexible document database
that lets you get to
building Mongo. DBS document model
is a natural way to
represent data so you can
focus on what matters. Mongo
DB Atlas is the best
way to use Mongo DB.
It's a global cloud database
service that gives you all
of the developer productivity of
Mongo DB. Plus the added
simplicity of a fully managed
database service. You can get
started free with Mongo DB
atlas@mongodb.com slash Atlas. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
today and breaking with my
no Scott's rule. I've got
Scott Bergen on the show
author of now his eighth
book. How design makes the
world? How are you, sir?
I am good. I am
happy to be a rule
breaker right off the bat.
That makes me excited too
many Scots, too many Scotts,
but you know, I've got,
gosh, I think five or
six of your books and
three of them behind me
on the shelves just right
here. Wow. You went and
became a bestselling author. I
did. And that is pretty
fantastic. How many books are
you doing? You doing a
book a year? What's your
schedule? No. Well, I think
I've averaged a book every
two years. Cause I quit
to try to equip Microsoft
to try to become a
writer in 2003. It's now
20, 2017 years close, close.
Are they all hard? Cause
the books that I've written
are technical books and at
the beginning of the process
of writing the book, I'm
like, eh, you know, I'll
just bang this book out.
It's it's gonna be great.
And then halfway through I'm
like, what have I done?
You know, it's just fun,
starting a project, right? Because
your ambition is really big
and it's all in your
head and the vision is
grand and then the work
is always the work, no
matter how great your vision
is. And you're passionate at
the beginning, it's, that's just
the nature of creative projects
I think. But writing is
hard. It's just, you're taking
on a lot of, you're
trying to take on these
huge burdens of covering a
subject that you know, really
well and try to distill
it down in a way
that people can benefit from
in a fraction of the
time that it took you
to learn all that stuff.
That's just a cognitively, an
enormous challenge to do at
all. And yeah. How do
you decide on the length
of your books? This book
is a comfortable, roughly 200
pages. It's not a book
that is, that is weighty.
That is, that is, has
a lot of emotional weight
where like, Oh, I'm going
to slog through this book.
One of your other great
books the year without pants
also, it's, it's a good
clean read on a fast
read. There's a lot of
depth and a lot of
density, but it's not 800
pages that you would hit
someone over the head with.
How do you decide you
have made this book 10
times longer? Well, I don't
know that I could anymore.
I think, I think, but
the, the, I think of
everything. That's what the book
is about. And even talking
about the book reveal some
of the same topics that
are in the book, is
it a book as a
design thing and you have
to be thinking about well,
who you're designing for and
who you're trying to reach.
And for this book I
wanted to reach everybody. I
want it to be a
book that someone could read
on an airplane, on a
car, on a short flight,
which we don't really have
at the moment, but someday
we'll fly again and wanted
it to be a two
hour read that required. No,
no, no, no preconditions, no
pre qualifiers that you don't
need any knowledge of design
or engineering or anything to
be able to get into
the book. And so that
was the goal. And two
hour, a 200 page book
is probably about a three
hour read for most people,
two, three hour read. That
was, that was my frame.
When I sat down to
start working on the project,
That's a really good thing.
Like you're thinking about not
just audience, but also context,
which is really significant because
every example in the entire
book is about context because
design only exists within context.
For sure. Yeah. I think
that's one of the lessons
of the book is people
think how design makes the
world like design is like
fashion and like interior design,
like isn't it a bit
pretentious to claim that design
makes the world or design
makes a nation or anything
like that. And that's what
I try to do with
the book is that that
word design, it's a verb
that applies to everything. Our
public transportation systems are designed
our policies for healthcare and
for a criminal law, those
things are designed borders between
nations are designed when you
really let it get its
legs out. There is about
everything and the things that
frustrate us or the disappoint
us, they make us angry.
They have those affection by
design because someone created it
and they are failing us.
And so I'm a Jajuan
I want to try to
cover it as broadly and
as intimately as I could
possibly do. No, the, the
kind of ultimate example are
the, the, the, the off
to cited design book would
be the design of everyday
things by Norman, who you
evoke within just a few
pages, because you, you share
the Norman door, maybe you
could tell us what the
Norman door is. And then
I have a question about
it. Sure. Yeah. The Norman
door is his classic example
for anyone who works on
product design, if any kind
and it's in his book.
And he talks about affordances
and affordance means how a
design presents itself to you
and what it suggests its
behavior is. And so a
door handle, if it has
a handle, like a handle
on an umbrella, a rounded
handle that implies to any
human being who lives in
the modern world, that it
should be polled a Norman
doors, any door that has
an affordance like that, but
as a message on it
that says the opposite, like
push. So you can find
these all over the place
doors that have confusing messages
about how you interact with
them. And it's used as
a canonical example for anyone
interested in usability or good
product design of any kind
as a fundamental mistake that
designers often make or engineers
often make when they're making
UI for things of not
thinking through the mental models
that people have and how
to interact with them. And
in writing this book, the
burden I was taking on
is really ambitious, a book
that will explain good design
to everybody. And I couldn't
think of doing that without
making some nod to the
books that have done that
before, try to do something
like that before. And when
I did the research for
this book, I asked everyone
who I knew had an
opinion about design, well, what,
what's the first book you
give to an executive or
manager or a client when
you're trying to explain good
design to them and designed
a very things was one
of the ones that came
with the most. So I'd
read it before I went
back and read it again.
And I felt like, well,
this book has done a
great deal, a great deal
of service to the whole
community of trying to make
things suck less for sure.
But the book itself is
not really designed to solve
that problem. It goes far
too deep into cognitive psychology
and how our memory works.
It's really more of a
guide for someone who's really
going to spend a lot
of time designing UI. So
I included that example for
two reasons, one as a
sort of homage to Don
Norman and the work that
he has done, but also
to help everyone who knows
that example get past it.
So I introduce it, explain
how this is an example
of bad design, but if
you go on Twitter, you'll
find people who call out
Norman, door's all over the
place with outrage. How could
there be another Norman door?
How could there be another
parking lot meter that's hard
to figure out. And there
are really good reasons why
there's so much bad design
in the world. And so
the next chapter, the second
chapter starts to unpack those
reasons. Some of the reasons
why Norman doors exist are
about aesthetics, that the choices
that people who do interior
design or architecture make, they're
trying to make a door
that looks good or fits
into the overall design of
the building, or they'll make
them that, or make design,
they'll choose doors that are
glass with metal bars, which
are more confusing, but it
allows natural light into places.
So there's actual trade offs
that are involved. That explains
why some of these things
exists. And that's where I
wanted to go with the
book to explain why bad
design happens. Cause that's really,
if we want more good
design, it's not just the,
it's not just like someone's
being an idiot and designing
a bad doorknob. There are
structural and organizational reasons that
lead. And in the middle
of that, you called out
something important, which was the
Mexican to be my next
question. But you answered it
for me, which is, is
it hard to write a
book when a book is
considered? That's the book, right?
The Norman book is considered
the book, but you're calling
out that this is not
that book. That book got
really deep into, you know,
the cognitive psychology of it.
This book I would have
to say is more accessible.
I found it to be
an easier read. There's a
lot of density in that,
that Norman book. Was it
intimidating to go in and
tackle this space when everyone
for right or wrong thinks
that the book has been
written? I, well, I think,
I think there's always, we
all believe in progress and
progress happens when people are
willing to take on the
standard and say, you know
what? There's a better way,
or at least a different
way that can be accessible
to a different group of
people or solve a different
problem. One of my earlier
books, a confessions of a
public speaker, I did the
same thing where I was
told, you know what, there's
already a hundred books on
public speaking. Why should there
be another one? And like,
that's just, that's the basis
for creativity is people who
think a different approach to
take. And so I have
a lot of respect for
Don Norman. He is truly
a luminary and hero in
the field, but that book
is 20 years old and
it takes a certain approach
by how it was, how
he chose to design that
book. And I'm going after
a different, I'm trying to
solve a different problem. I
want to invite everybody in
to be thinking more clearly
about good design. Yeah. And
I really feel like you
did that. And I would
even go so far as
to say that I've shared
this book with my 14
year old, it is a
very accessible book. And one
of the things that I
really appreciate about all your
books, this one in particular
is you really give a
sense of historical context. I
wonder if you do that
consciously, you always kind of
call back to here's. Here's
the thing that I've identified.
Here's the thing that I've
researched. Here's some people who
thought about that, and then
you put it into a
context kind of temporarily. You're
always going forward and backwards
in the 20th century throughout
this book, thinking about why
this design happened, what the
thinking behind it and what
was going on in the
world when this, when this
thing happened, I'm glad that
you noticed that. Cause it
takes a lot of work
to pull that off. I
think that, I think that
it's grounding. I think that
we're so fond of believing
that it's a term Tom
Standage who writes for the
economist uses called the Kronos
centric that everything is new.
And we're the first, we're
the first group of people
ever to face design problems,
engineering problems. And that's just
patently untrue. It just, it's
a shallow understanding of the
history of your own field.
If you tend to think
that way. And I think
there's a power to stories
when they come from further
back in history, there are
also more stable stories. If
I were to write this
book and all my examples
are about the latest, the
latest iPhone or the latest
laptop in a year, those
stories are going to be
out of date. They're not
going to have any power
relevance anymore, but by carefully
choosing interesting stories from the
past that have power, that
those are stories that I
hope and think will stay
with people longer and be
more applicable because there'll be
able to refer back to
something that comes from a
deeper, a deeper place. How
did you decide about the
story arc your, your chapters
in this book? You've got
about 20 chapters and there's
a bit of a bell
curve there and the kind
of the, the, some, some
discussion around design as a
verb and a great chapter
called the pass in your
pocket. I want to talk
about in a little bit,
how did you figure out
how to end? How did
you slide down the other
side of the story arc?
Well, that is mostly about,
I always have a rough
outline. I have, you know,
I usually have, as I'm
thinking of the early draft
of the book is usually
ideas from 2030, 40 chapters.
I do the same. We're
going to project management technique.
Any smart person would use,
you make a big list
and you start refining it,
prioritizing it. And then you
write the first draft. And
then in writing the first
draft, you realize, all right,
chapter seven, I thought it
was going to be great.
And it sucks. I'll rip
that one out. And then
chapter nine and 10, you
realize, you know what, they're
separate now really should be
merged. Like you discover all
these things to the iterative
process of making stuff. So
I do that a lot,
but I don't know what,
what the, what the anchoring
stores are going to be
yet. I'll have guesses, but
it's only through the writing
a whole draft and then
reading it and giving it
to beta readers. I start
to get a feel for
it. That story just doesn't
work here. So I do
need to replace that story
with a better one or
rip out that part of
the chapter. And so I
think the book ends, you'll
ask you about the tail
end of the bell curve.
The book ends with the
story, a chapter that talks
about how solutions become problems,
the designs that succeed because
there's generate problems. And all
the first part of that
chapter is about the medical
community. And what goes on
in a hospital room with
all the alarms and the
bells that compete with each
other. I didn't come to
that as being the anchor
for setting up the last
chapter until it was a
late draft. It's probably draft
four or three or four.
And as I'm working, doing
research, I make a huge
document. It's got all these
cool stories in it, just
reference from all the things
I've been reading. And as
I'm doing revisions, I Mark
each of the stories in
that big document is marked
with notes for where it
might, what chapter it might
work in. So as I
am writing, if I get
stuck and realize this story
sucks, or the fact I
thought was true, I did
more research and I'm totally
wrong. It's not true. So
it doesn't work. I can
go back to my notes
and go, what else did
I have that could tell
the story of exclusion and
you know, gender bias in
design? Oh, I can go
back to that section and
see if I have another
story and I can put
it back in and see
if it works. And you
get into, I think that's
chapter 19, when you say
solutions create problems. But then
what I like about the
book is when you think
you're at the end, there's
basically 20 pages of notes
of references of other books
to read. You share your
entire process here, and you
actually have a call to
action to improve the design
of the world. I love
this one particular line that
I highlighted. You said, it's
a big world. And then
this is a small book.
You actually give a list
of the things that we
can do to kind of
ask. And I liked the
way you phrased this. What
can you ask of the
things that you see around
you when you see a
thing that is designed that
doesn't meet your needs or
that you feel some kind
of way about what do
you ask of that object?
Yeah. I wanted to make
it actionable. I think it's
a, I think I'm good
at storytelling. I think I'm
good at structuring a narrative
experience. People will hopefully say
it's a good read, but
I really have the ambition
of, I want a better
design world. That's all that
stuff that doesn't work well,
that should, and the people
who make stuff. And I
know you from your career
were around a lot of
people who make stuff, developers
and designers and entrepreneurs, everyone
who I know who wants
to make stuff wants to
make something good. So there's
a gap there in their
knowledge about it. And so
I want anyone who makes
two goods to get through
the book and feels, ah,
I think I see the
world better. Well, I want
them to be, have some
tools for how they can
apply that knowledge and ask
better questions when they're in
meetings or when they write
a product review, think about
it in a more critical
way, or I wanted to
make it an, I wanted
to make what they get
out of it, something that's
active and help them help
them on their way. One
of the best questions that
you ask that you mentioned
a little bit at the
beginning of our conversation is
what hidden constraints can explain
this things. Weaknesses. I think
a lot of us just
assume that, well, the only
explanation for why this is
this way is because the
people who made it are
idiots, but there are other
kids in constraints. Okay. Yeah.
There, there is. Although, you
know, I don't want to,
I don't want to defend
a, I don't want it
to be clear. I see
as a problem, but yeah,
we all kind of know
it in our own lives,
that when we work on
projects, we know that we
didn't get enough budget and
that's why it's not that
great. Or there was a
political fight between one department
head and another, or a
team or teammates weren't useful
or PR we know at
work for ourselves. How many
of the constraints that limit
the quality of the work
that we can make on
projects is really about all
these tough things that are
hard. But when you are
in the world as a,
as a, as a person
using things, we're not really
interested in being generous to
these teams, we don't know
about. So we take it
at face value when there's
a confusing intersection that we
drive through or, or we
miss an exit because the
sign wasn't clear, you know,
we're rightfully mad because we're
living in the world with
that experience. But that anger
about a stupid design. You
don't learn anything from just
assuming the team was stupid.
There's far more lessons to
be discovered as you go,
wait a second, let me
find out why that sign
was made that way. Like,
what's the story behind this
design failure. That's really where
you start to learn just
flippantly saying something is terrible
or flippantly, flippantly saying something
was great without starting to
ask questions, you don't want
to learn anything. And I
really wanted this to be
a book that people even
just one chapter on its
own, people will go, Oh,
now I can see why
maybe this thing I experienced
last month or a year
ago, or think this thing
that frustrates me now, I'm
starting to get some insight
into what's really going on.
You know, a really great
example of exactly what you
just said is chapter 12,
you talk about an airplane
boarding pass and you show
kind of the classic Delta,
you know, airplane boarding pass.
And it's, it's not really
interesting or useful. It's just
a boarding pass, right? And
then you call out an
example of a very talented
designer who went through and
redesigned it. And then you
show the, the, the more
readable, more attractive boarding pass.
And you look at, and
you go, Oh my God,
this is gorgeous. Like we
should, this is amazing. We
all need this boarding pass,
but then you look at
it and you're like, wow,
it's a lot less readable.
It's kind of like a
star Trek. You know, Ella
car's kind of interface. I
don't really like, where am
I sitting in? Cause I
don't even know where the
seat is. It's, it's initially
gorgeous. But what is the
word for these kinds of
redesigns Drive by redesign? All
right. He jumped in the
whole team, did a bunch
of research. He applied his
is excellent. I it's a
gorgeous thing, but it's, it's
not better. Yeah. Well the,
the chapter gets into why
it's just impossible. Like the,
the, the, the dry by
design thing, I think is
a phenomenon of any creator
on Twitter or Facebook where
they, they use something and
they see a terrible logo,
or as a software developer,
they use something that just
is very slow and buggy.
And then on Twitter there's
so I can design it
better when I could do
a better one and they
just start typing what they
would do. That would be
so much, it's so obvious
from the outside. And so
this example, the boarding pass
is a great one because
that we do this all
the time and just, we
redesigned things on our own,
or we like, we watched
the last star Wars movie
and we're like, Oh, I
could have written a better
script. And we just presume
that it's all, it's all
superficial and obvious in the
case of the boarding pass
design, the real constraint of
why boarding passes look the
way they do. And this
is true also for like,
if you fill out a
medical form or an insurance
form, it's confusing, there's often
constraints that have to do
with how they're printed, what
printing services are available at
that scale. And so it
turns out that in most
airports, there's a limited set
of printers that were installed
in the late eighties. Mostly
that have limited abilities. They're
not dot matrix printers, but
they can't do multicolor there's
there's limits on the sizing
options that they have. And
so the constraints are purely
physical. They're about, they're about
bits and they're about atoms.
And that's why those boarding
passes are designed the way
that they are, because the
costs of putting a new
printers in every gate in
every airport would be astronomical.
And this is where designers
and engineers. You start thinking
through constraints now that yes,
maybe you could design something
that was better in one
way, but the expense of
it to actually achieve that,
given all the logistics required
would be, make it ridiculously
unaffordable. And so what's what
is design then is design.
Then this abstract commentary that
we're, we offer things, or
are we in the real
world where to really make
a better boarding pass, you
have to deal with the
real constraints. And it's often
way more fun to skip
over the real constraints and
just pretend like, well, I
could do a better job.
I'm going to make fun
of this, this thing I
just saw on social media.
We see that a lot.
When we see people go
and redesign Mac or redesigned
windows, or they say, why
doesn't the start menu look
like this? And I'm usually,
even though I work at
Microsoft right now, I go
and say, Oh my God,
we need to stop everything.
And we need to redesign
the start menu to look
like that. Yeah. But again,
it doesn't think about the
billion people using the thing,
the, and the usability, the
usability, the inclusion, the accessibility
constraints. There are a ton
of hidden constraints that designers
face. And I think, as
you said before, we just
tend to go, well, that's
just, it should just be
like this. And it should
just be like that. It's
very, very human to minimize
the complexity of a, of
a thing. Yeah. Especially when
you don't actually have to
do the work, you're just
driving by for five minutes,
you're going to rail against
how stupid the people at
Microsoft or Google, how dumb
they are. They designed it
this way. And then you
move on in your life
and you never have to
actually discover how much harder
it is to do these
things. Then it seems from
the outside, Hey, friends, I
want to thank one of
our sponsors. The company text
control. They're the creator of
TXT tax control. It's a
Microsoft word, inspired document editor
library. It's basically a document
processing engine for your web
applications. They've got libraries for
asp.net, MVC for angular, for
no JS. And they just
released a.net core version. It
lets you basically integrate a
Wiziwig document editor into your
web applications. You can edit
docs, you can do merge
templates. You can include data.
You can even create Adobe
PDF documents. It's a fully
featured API. It's really pretty
amazing. You can try it
free. And I encourage you
to check out the live
demos@textcontrol.com slash demos, text control.com/demos.
It's really pretty amazing piece
of work. Do you think
that the close door button
in an elevator does anything
or has you done the
research and confirm that it
in fact does not. I
did all the research. So
I confirmed that the, it
really depends, but in most
cases they don't do anything
in the United States. The reason
is in part because of
the American disabilities act and
that required that doors stay
open long enough that someone
with on a wheelchair or
on crutches, or who's just
older and a little slow,
has time to get to
the door up until then.
They probably worked more often.
But in general, these things
are what are called placebo
buttons that like a placebo
your mind, or your mind
may think that it's actually
doing something which can have
an actual beneficial effect on
your experience. But in reality,
the button doesn't do anything.
So crosswalk buttons at intersections
are another common example. The
wiring to maintain those is
expensive. And also the traffic
systems in many cities are
controlled based on time of
day and other factors. And
if they incorporated individual user
commands into that system, it
would just be untenable and
it wouldn't work. And then,
But it would feel weird.
It wouldn't match my mental
model. If there was only
an open button, because you
need two sides, you need
to open it up. Yeah.
And some again, though, it's
people complain, why isn't there
a closed door button? So
what are you going to
do if you're the person
that you're the superintendent of
the building you're putting in
a closed door button and
now people are happier because
it lights up. Even though
it doesn't do anything, that's
way cheaper. It solves the
problem. But it's way cheaper
than actually having to do
engineering and wiring. It. Actually
elevator control systems are fascinating
in a way, because they're
not controlled by the elevator.
They're controlled in some cases
by the whole master system
that links together how, which,
which the elevators are gonna
go, where elevators are talking
about constraints. Elevator design has
way more complications than, than
most people think that they
do. The, the point that
you made about complaints and
how people complain. There was
another great story. When we're
thinking about mental models and
people were complaining. So the
design change was to move
when someone lands and they
want to go get their
bags of the baggage system
to move the carousel far
away, because people were complaining
that they'd show up and
they'd wear my bags. Why
is moving it from our
way, fix it. This is
a fascinating story. And it's
a fascinating story in part,
because it's not, it's probably
not entirely true. Now, when
I do research, I try
to be, I wrote a
book on the midst of
innovation, which is all about
showing all these things we
think we commonly know about
creativity and innovation, that many
of those stories are terribly
mistold and unfounded and not
really based on actual evidence
for things like Newton's. Apple
is a very contentious story
when it comes to history
and how all that stuff
gets told. So I try
to keep a really high
bar for anything. I include
that story was written in
the New York times in the
early 1990s about an airport
in Dallas, or then they
never say which specific airport,
which is usually a problem.
But as the story goes,
I'll tell, I'll tell it.
As it's usually told, they
were having complaints about how
long people had to wait.
And what they had tried
at first were different options
for like speeding up baggage
handling and automating the system.
They tried all the logical
rational approaches, but it didn't
help enough. People were still
complaining. So as the story
is told, what they did
instead was something that seems,
it seems, it seems irrational.
What they did instead was
they made it that the
walk to get, when you
get from the gate, the
walk from your gate to
where your bags are was
longer. And by making it
longer, it made it so
that there was more time
for your bags to arrive.
So the percentage of time,
when you got to where
the bag is, where the
baggage claim area, number five,
the bags were there and
people stopped complaining. Even though
it took longer, there's something
about our mental models for
how time passes. When we
wait for things, we get
irritated. But if we are
walking to a place and
the stuff is there, we
feel good. And this was
in the chapter, just reflect
that engineers and people who
are very smart and rational.
We try to solve problems
rationally. We want to really
solve the problem, but our
brains don't work that way
all the time. People who
are users and consumers and
customers, their relationship to rationale,
we're more emotional creatures. And
our perceptions of time are
not as rigorous as engineers
tend to think. So the
lesson from that story, even
if it's not entirely true,
is that by understanding human
psychology, you need to understand
human psychology better in order
to design and engineer things
better for people. If you're
not doing that, you're going
to make the mistake of
trying to solve the problem.
One way, when there's a
much easier approach, that's just
as good. That requires a
lot less effort and a
lot less work. And there's
a ton of people out
there who think about waiting
like time and temporal management,
how people think and how
people experience time. That's a
whole world of psychology. Like
that's designing so that we
don't get irritated. Whether it
be waiting in line at
Disney Disneyland or on an
elevator or at the DMV,
all of those things you
want to basically reduce the
anxiety of the people waiting
in line. Yeah. And so
that's a Disney, world's a
fantastic example because people don't
think of it this way.
And Disney Disney would never
advertise their amusement parks this
way, but they're really not
amusing parks. They're more like
waiting in line parks. You
spend most of your time
waiting in line. And, and,
but they've made a whole
bunch of very big investments
to make that entertaining and
pleasant and as fun as
interactive things along the way
you get food, they also
give you estimated wait times,
which is a smart thing
to do. And the estimated
wait times are always inflated,
but as much as possible.
So even though you waited
45, you thought you were
gonna wait 45 minutes. If
you only wait 30 minutes,
do you feel like you
got a good deal? And
that's again about anchoring a
principle about psycho psychology, that
when you anchor something, it
could be the price of
the most expensive food item
on a menu. It sets
your perspective for what good,
bad, and great are. And
so that's another technique that
you couldn't, they could have
spent all this time trying
to really figure out. Maybe
we can have five rollercoasters
go at the same time,
one after another. And we
can up the speed of
the, and the engineering capacity
of the system or Wallace
let's, let's focus on psychology,
let's design for psychology and
make it better. So I
think the door opened or
closed button. You might not
need that. If it said
closing and five seconds, four
seconds, three, if it actually
gave you a time estimate,
also when you're waiting for
an elevator, same thing, you
push that button and then
it lights up and then
we all push it again.
And we push it again,
push it again. Like it's
entirely irrational. The button is
lit. Like we know the
system knows that we want
it, but yet we still
feel like if we don't
do something because we don't
know. But if it said
estimated for next car, you
know, two and a half
minutes, all right, I'll just
read an article on my
phone. We know that we're
being taken care of. I
feel like we need to
go and fix the windows
Explorer file copy dialogue. Because
when they estimate the time
that's going to be like
this final copy is going
to take a month. You
know, I don't feel like
I'm winning when it only
takes five minutes and there's
no button, there's no placebo
button. The, I really mean
it. You know? No, I
really want a copy that
I need that. One of
the last things I want
to ask you about is
that you call that some
broken organizational problems that need
to be overcome designed by
dysfunction, designed by committee and
designed by regulation. If you
could share those problems and
why solving them is so
important. Well, I think that
gets back to constraints that
when we use something that
frustrates us, we have in
our head, that there was
just one overlord in the
project that controlled every decision
that was made. And the
reason why the thing is
bad is because that person
was an idiot yet in
our own world, our own
working world, we know there's
a head of engineering. There's
a head of project management
for every, for every product
team, right? There's a head
of engineering is a head
of program management. There's a
head of testing. If you
have quality assurance as a
head of marketing, and if
the head of engineering and
the head of the design
team or the head of
the project management team hate
each other, that's going to
ripple down through the organization
in all kinds of dysfunctional
ways is not going to
be respect for the contributions
of different roles and different
people with different knowledge. Have
there's not going to be
a healthy schedule process because
it's going to be fighting
and in fighting over which
things get prioritized. If the
goals aren't clear. So I
think that usually it's possibly
the primary reason why so
much of the world is
so many things that were
poorly designed. This most organizations
don't work very well. They're
there, there are, they are
dysfunctional. People don't communicate well
or decisions are not made
clearly, or there isn't a
good vision, or there's a
thousand things that have to
be done well to make
an organization a healthy place.
And it's hard to do,
but even though it's hard
to do, you can't expect
an organization that's just bad
at making good decisions to
make good design decisions. That's
just improbable. Design is one
of many kinds of decisions
that an organization has to
make. And I think one
of my critiques of many
books on design, including a
design of everyday things and
Steve Krug's don't make me
think there are many great
books about design. They rarely
go to these places that
are the fundamental reasons why
things end up as in
the product as not working
well. It's about how, how
the project team has led,
how it's managed, how, where
the, where does the budget
come from? You can't really
worry about your, does your
design or usability experts, ability
to contribute if there's no
budget for it. And if,
or if the schedule is
a mess and there's no
time for it. So there's
a fundamentalist of just projects
that are integral to thinking
about how good design of
any kind happens. So dysfunctional
teams don't work design by
committee basically means designed by
consensus people, just trying to
come up with the least
awesome hospital solution. And then
of course, designed by regulation
can almost suck the life
out of design completely. For
sure. Yeah. And that's anything
that we see it's in
the public like traffic, traffic,
traffic design, a traffic sign
design, like the highway signs,
you see public transportation systems
and where, whether you have
there's a bus stop, a
block from your house or
50 blocks from your house.
There's a lot of regulation
and public process that goes
into making any kind of
design change. We're getting design
approvals. And we like to
make fun of some people
like to make fun work
in the private sector, how
clumsy and foolhardy government projects
can be. But part of
the, part of it is
the challenge of those constraints.
Many of which were created
for a good reason, but
managing those constraints effectively now
becomes as big a challenge
as coming up with the
ideas and developing them is
as well. Yeah. You've got
to, actually, one of my
particular favorite chapter is the
one on design as it
flows with regards to how
people move through space, how
people move through airports, garages,
transportation as a whole design
issue as well. Yeah. Well,
thank you so much, Scott Burke,
and for chatting with me
today about your book, how
design makes the world, I,
I really enjoyed it very
much and I appreciate the
opportunity to chat with you.
Thanks for having me on
it was a great conversation.
It was a pleasure. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .